Add migration docs for future Tag (#4642)
cultureamp/kaizen-design-system: packages/components/src/__future__/Tag/Tag/_docs/MigrationGuide.mdx

## Migration examples

The following are example of migrating from previously available props to the composable solution.

### Status

With the `variant` prop there are four value ascoiated with statuses in the legacy tag:  `statusLive`, `statusDraft`, `statusClosed`, `statusAction`.

For the most part these can all be replaced easily with the use of the `color` prop, with exception to the `live` status.

#### Before

<Canvas of={LegacyTagStories.Status} />

#### After

<Canvas of={TagMigrationStories.StatusMigration} sourceState="shown"/>

While the `LiveIcon` is exported from `@kaizen/components` the legacy `Tag` used an animated implementation, which is not currently available. As an interim solution you can use the following story's code snippet to create a `LiveIconComponent`. This can then be passed into as `Children` of the `Tag`.

<Canvas of={TagMigrationStories.LiveIconComponentStory} sourceState="hidden"/>

### Validation

Following the same pattern as status, `validationPositive`, `validationInformative`, `validationNegative`, `validationCautionary` can all be replace with the `color` and `icon` prop.

> Note: because the icons convey meaning, they should have an accessible label that provides context to the tag. A contextual `aria-label`and role of `img` addresses one of the [accessibility issues](https://github.com/cultureamp/kaizen-discourse/issues/102) with the legacy Tag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: Because the icons convey meaning, they should have an accessible label that provides context to the tag. A contextual `aria-label` and role of `img` addresses one of the [accessibility issues](https://github.com/cultureamp/kaizen-discourse/issues/102) with the legacy Tag.
```

Rather than link to the a11y issue, I'd probably just provide an example snippet with the correct expected code.

#### Before

<Canvas of={LegacyTagStories.Validation} />

#### After

<Canvas of={TagMigrationStories.ValidationMigration} sourceState="shown"/>

Note: When using the `icon` prop, the icon's color will be determined by `color` value that has been set. This is to ensure that and accessible contrast ratio is achieved.

> Any Icons added as a child of the `Tag` will need to be manually set to ensure the right contrast ratio.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Any Icons added as `children` of the `Tag` will need to be manually set to ensure the right contrast ratio.
```

### Sentiment

While migration of any `Tag` using, `sentimentPositive`, `sentimentNeutral` or `sentimentNegative` is relatively straight forward using the `color` prop, `sentimentNone` does not align to any Kaizen's [semantic colors](https://cultureamp.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/DesignSystem/pages/3064857902/Color).

#### Before

<Canvas of={LegacyTagStories.Sentiments} />

#### After

<Canvas of={TagMigrationStories.SentimentsMigration} sourceState="shown"/>

If required, you could use `classNameOverride` to implement the same UI. It is important that any override of the default styles still meets minimum contrast ratios to ensure the component is accessible.

> <Canvas of={TagMigrationStories.SentimentNone} />

Reviewer: Perhaps the correct suggestion is to actually use one of the provided colours. Check with the designers though :)

### Dismissible

The `dismissible` prop is no longer available in the base `Tag` component. We have split the dismissible functionality into the [RemovableTag](/docs/components-tag-future-removabletag--docs).

This increases the hit box for the dismiss button and makes the `ariaLabel` in the `removeButtonProps` a required prop. This offers a more accessible experience for user and address one of the standing [accessibility issues](https://github.com/cultureamp/kaizen-discourse/issues/101) with the legacy `Tag`.

#### Before

<Canvas of={LegacyTagStories.Dismissible} />

#### After

<Canvas of={TagMigrationStories.DismissibleMigration} sourceState="shown"/>

> Remember that when handling dismiss (or any destructive action), a users focus should not be lost on the page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Remember that when handling dismiss (or any destructive action), a user's focus should not be lost on the page.
```

### Avatars

> Avatars are no longer provided directly to the `Tag` as a prop. Instead they will now me passed in as children.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Avatars are no longer provided directly to the `Tag` as a prop. Instead pass them through `children`.
```

Worth writing a note on the a11y requirements? I believe Avatars in Tag are usually presentational only, so we should ensure the correct attributes are added.

#### Before

<Canvas of={LegacyTagStories.ProfileWithAvatarProps} />

#### After

<Canvas of={TagMigrationStories.AvatarMigration} sourceState="shown"/>

> Note: The use of `ps-4` (or `padding-inline-start`) in the `classNameOverride` is to override the default spacing at start of the `Tag`. This will ensure the Avatar can contour the border radius of the `Tag`.

Reviewer: This is definitely an indication that we should be including the Avatar within our component. But it's fine in the interim.

#### Dismissible Avatars

> Following a similar pattern to the above, you can use the `RemovableTag` with an `Avatar` and plain text as its children to achieve a dismissible version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Following a similar pattern to the above, you can use the `RemovableTag` with an `Avatar` and plain text as its `children` to achieve a dismissible version.
```

I don't know whether `plain text` is required to be mentioned. Technically it can accept a ReactNode right?

<Canvas of={TagMigrationStories.AvatarRemovableMigration} />

### Inline

Originally the `Tag` was built with the assumption that it would always required spacing at the end. This necessitated the need for the `inline` prop to remove the margin from end when it was not required.

> In favour of simplifying the component, `inline` and the default `margin-inline-end` has been removed. It is recommended now to control spacing between tags to use a `gap` of 12 pixels on the container of the tags, ie: `gap-12`. In instances where more specific margins are require, opt for `margin-inline-end` and `classNameOverride` on the tag to ensure RTL support is baked in.

Reviewer: I think there's too much technicality mentioned here. I'm seeing so many attributes and classes that I can't figure out what is relevant.

Perhaps just outline that we no longer include a margin in the component, so spacing should be resolved by the consumer in a container style.

Reviewer 2: I agree, I don't think we need to expound this much. I think we leave the recommended method to the example

#### Before

<Canvas of={LegacyTagStories.Inline} />

#### After

<Canvas of={TagMigrationStories.InlineMigration} sourceState="shown"/>

### Truncation

> This was original controlled by the component and set the `max-width` of a component via inline styles. This can now be easily controlled with Tailwind and was not needed in the new API.

Author: I can probably elaborate on some guidance here - ie: make sure it is screen readable and that you are not hiding important information. I don't know how realistic it is to say out and out don't do it, but could definitely elaborate on this

> This was original controlled by the component and set the `max-width` of a component via inline styles. This can now be easily controlled with Tailwind and was not needed in the new API.

Author: Would be better to push guidance to a central doc on ellipsis and a11y guidance if we know of one. The reason I didn't go hard on this is because it wasn't raised as an a11y issue in the intopia report

> This was original controlled by the component and set the `max-width` of a component via inline styles. This can now be easily controlled with Tailwind and was not needed in the new API.

Reviewer: I agree. Truncation isn't an accessible pattern, so it shouldn't be recommended to be done.

> This was original controlled by the component and set the `max-width` of a component via inline styles. This can now be easily controlled with Tailwind and was not needed in the new API.

Author: I think there room for pause on saying truncation is not accessible - there is an accessible way to do it and probably valid reasons, i.e: if someone has a long name and that's in a tag. It does need to be handled properly to pass WCAG criteria (reveal on focus or reveal on activation like click) but its not a flat no from my understanding of the standard.

> This was original controlled by the component and set the `max-width` of a component via inline styles. This can now be easily controlled with Tailwind and was not needed in the new API.

Author: I suppose the thing I'm really latching onto is this line ([in this doc](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/resize-text)):

> truncation is acceptable if the component's full content is available on focus or after user activation and an indication that this information can be accessed

Granted this is above resizing containers with zoom, but I wonder if that still stand 🤔 @dougmacknz may know more / have some handy dandy docs I can refer to, but will pester him next week to confirm :)

> This was original controlled by the component and set the `max-width` of a component via inline styles. This can now be easily controlled with Tailwind and was not needed in the new API.

Reviewer: I think if you're going to give an example migration path, it might as well be something actually usable that meets a11y standards. Just the closest solution you can think of as a suggestion.

Otherwise I'd be looking at the docs thinking you've told me the old pattern is bad, but that the new one is just as bad.

> This was original controlled by the component and set the `max-width` of a component via inline styles. This can now be easily controlled with Tailwind and was not needed in the new API.

Author: Yeah, the Tailwind implementation of a potentially problematic truncation is still an issue, just wasn't sure if I should be trying to solve that here or not, or just provide an example of where to start before they make it properly accessible - Maybe having the examples is a bad idea and should just leave it as why its not in the new API?

> This was original controlled by the component and set the `max-width` of a component via inline styles. This can now be easily controlled with Tailwind and was not needed in the new API.

Author: I'm going to axe the "after"  Story and just provide some guidance on why it shouldn't be done 👍

#### Before

<Canvas of={LegacyTagStories.Truncate} />

#### After

<Canvas of={TagMigrationStories.TruncateMigration} sourceState="shown"/>

### Size

> The two sizes for tag have been remove in favour of a default size in between `medium` and `small`. The `small` specifically was removed due to the reduced hit radius for the dismissible button and poor compatibility with avatars and icon.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The two sizes for tag have been removed in favour of a default size in between `medium` and `small`. The `small` specifically was removed due to the reduced hit radius for the dismissible button and poor compatibility with avatars and icon.
```

> `classNameOverride` can be leveraged to add padding and modify properties but should be done with caution to reduce inconsistencies in the platform and reduce the risk of accessibility violations/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you must use an old size, `classNameOverride` can be leveraged to add padding and modify properties.
```

I'd probably mention a11y in the previous sentence instead.
